RFC 340: Kinesis Firehose Delivery Stream L2 (#342)
aws/aws-cdk-rfcs: text/0340-firehose-l2.md

  }),
});

// Explicitly provide an S3 bucket to which all source records will be backed up
const backupBucket = new s3.Bucket(this, 'Bucket');
const deliveryStream = new DeliveryStream(this, 'Delivery Stream Backup All Explicit Bucket', {
  destination: new destinations.Elasticsearch({
    domain: domain,
    indexName: 'myindex',
    backupBucket: backupBucket,
  }),
});

// Explicitly provide an S3 prefix under which all source records will be backed up
const deliveryStream = new DeliveryStream(this, 'Delivery Stream Backup All Explicit Prefix', {
  destination: new destinations.Elasticsearch({
    domain: domain,
    indexName: 'myindex',
    backup: BackupMode.ALL,
    backupPrefix: 'mybackup',
  }),
});
```

If any Data Processing or Transformation is configured on your Delivery Stream, the source
records will be backed up in their original format.

## Data Processing/Transformation

Firehose supports transforming data before delivering it to destinations. There are two
types of data processing for Delivery Streams: record transformation with AWS Lambda, and
record format conversion using a schema stored in an AWS Glue table. If both types of data

> processing are configured, then the Lambda transofmration is perfromed first. By default,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
processing are configured, then the Lambda transformation is performed first. By default,
```

fix typos! oops!

const database = 'my_db';
const cluster = new redshift.Cluster(this, 'Cluster', {
  vpc: vpc,
  vpcSubnets: {
    subnetType: ec2.SubnetType.PUBLIC,
  },
  masterUser: {
    masterUsername: 'master',
  },
  defaultDatabaseName: database,
  publiclyAccessible: true,
});

const redshiftDestination = new destinations.Redshift(cluster, {
  user: {
    username: 'firehose',
  },
  database: database,
  tableName: 'firehose_test_table',
  tableColumns: [
    { name: 'TICKER_SYMBOL', dataType: 'varchar(4)' },
    { name: 'SECTOR', dataType: 'varchar(16)' },
    { name: 'CHANGE', dataType: 'float' },
    { name: 'PRICE', dataType: 'float' },
  ],
  copyOptions: 'json \'auto\'',
});
new DeliveryStream(this, 'Delivery Stream', {
  destinations: [redshiftDestination],
});
```

### 3rd Party

Third-party service providers such as Splunk, Datadog, Dynatrace, LogicMonitor, MongoDB,
New Relic, and Sumo Logic have integrated with AWS to allow users to configure their
service as a delivery stream destination out of the box.

These integrations have not been completed (see #1234), please use [custom HTTP endpoints](#custom-http-endpoint)
to integrate with 3rd party services.

> ### Custom HTTP Endpoint

Reviewer 2: I guess put this before the 3rd party section which says "use this" :)

Author: Personally, I don't see the issue with having this located after its been referred to. I'd like to keep the 3rd party section first since each of those destinations should get first-class support in the future and our users should be not be confused about whether they need to use the custom endpoint for these.

access, rotation, aliases, and deletion for these keys, and you are changed for their
use. See: [Customer master keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/concepts.html#master_keys)
in the *KMS Developer Guide*.

```ts fixture=with-destination
import * as kms from '@aws-cdk/aws-kms';

// SSE with an AWS-owned CMK
new DeliveryStream(this, 'Delivery Stream AWS Owned', {
  encryption: StreamEncryption.AWS_OWNED,
  destinations: [destination],
});

// SSE with an customer-managed CMK that is created automatically by the CDK
new DeliveryStream(this, 'Delivery Stream Implicit Customer Managed', {
  encryption: StreamEncryption.CUSTOMER_MANAGED,
  destinations: [destination],
});

// SSE with an customer-managed CMK that is explicitly specified
const key = new kms.Key(this, 'Key');
new DeliveryStream(this, 'Delivery Stream Explicit Customer Managed'', {
  encryptionKey: key,
  destinations: [destination],
});
```

If a Kinesis data stream is configured as the source of a delivery stream, Kinesis Data
Firehose no longer stores data at rest and all encryption is handled by Kinesis Data

> Streams. Kinesis Data Firehose receives unencrypted data from Kinesis Data Streams,

Reviewer 2: "unencrypted" ? This confuses me.

Author: rewrote (read: plagiarized from the developer guide), hopefully it's clearer

for a full list). CDK also provides a generic `metric` method that can be used to produce
metric configurations for any metric provided by Kinesis Data Firehose; the configurations
are pre-populated with the correct dimensions for the delivery stream.

```ts fixture=with-delivery-stream
// TODO: confirm this is a valid alarm
import * as cloudwatch from '@aws-cdk/aws-cloudwatch';
// Alarm that triggers when the per-second average of incoming bytes exceeds 90% of the current service limit
const incomingBytesPercentOfLimit = new cloudwatch.MathExpression({
  expression: 'incomingBytes / 300 / bytePerSecLimit',
  usingMetrics: {
    incomingBytes: deliveryStream.metricIncomingBytes({ statistic: cloudwatch.Statistic.SUM }),
    bytePerSecLimit: deliveryStream.metric('BytesPerSecondLimit'),
  },
});
new Alarm(this, 'Alarm', {
  metric: incomingBytesPercentOfLimit,
  threshold: 0.9,
  evaluationPeriods: 3,
});
```

See: [Monitoring Using CloudWatch Metrics](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/monitoring-with-cloudwatch-metrics.html)
in the *Kinesis Data Firehose Developer Guide*.

> ## Compression

Reviewer 2: Should this not be part of the S3 section?

Author: I don't think so, since it does apply to the other destinations where S3 is merely used as a stepping stone and we do our best to remove any need to know that S3 is used at all

it using the AWS console and you can choose from any of the supported
destinations.

## Working Backwards

### CHANGELOG

`feat(kinesisfirehose): DeliveryStream L2; S3, Elasticache, Redshift destinations`

### README

---

# Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose Construct Library

[Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/what-is-this-service.html)
is a service for fully-managed delivery of real-time streaming data to storage services
such as Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift, Amazon Elasticsearch, Splunk, or any custom HTTP
endpoint or third-party services such as Datadog, Dynatrace, LogicMonitor, MongoDB, New
Relic, and Sumo Logic. This module is part of the [AWS Cloud Development Kit](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk)
project. It allows you to create Kinesis Data Firehose delivery streams.

## Creating a Delivery Stream

In order to create a Delivery Stream, you must specify a destination. An S3 bucket can be
used as a destination. More supported destinations are covered [below](#destinations).

```ts
import * as destinations from '@aws-cdk/aws-kinesisfirehose-destinations';

new DeliveryStream(this, 'Delivery Stream', {

>   destination: new destinations.S3(),

Reviewer: The main use case is that after dumping all of your data to some storage, S3 Bucket or otherwise, then you would perform some kind of big data analysis on it. So in some cases, humans might look in the bucket contents, but in most cases I think the volume of data will be too large for that. 

Considering that, I think you are right that it would make more sense to make the Bucket a required parameter.

});
```

The above example creates the following resources:

- An S3 bucket
- A Kinesis Data Firehose delivery stream with Direct PUT as the source and CloudWatch
  error logging turned on.
- An IAM role which gives the delivery stream permission to write to your S3 bucket.

## Sources

There are two main methods of sourcing input data: Kinesis Data Streams and via a "direct
put".

See: [Sending Data to a Delivery Stream](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/basic-write.html)
in the *Kinesis Data Firehose Developer Guide*.

### Kinesis Data Stream

A delivery stream can read directly from a Kinesis data stream as a consumer of the data
stream. Configure this behaviour by providing a data stream in the `sourceStream`
property when constructing a delivery stream:

```ts fixture=with-destination
import * as kinesis from '@aws-cdk/aws-kinesis';

const sourceStream = new kinesis.Stream(this, 'Source Stream');
new DeliveryStream(this, 'Delivery Stream', {
  sourceStream: sourceStream,
  destination: destination,
});
```

### Direct Put

If a source data stream is not provided, then data must be provided via "direct put", ie.,

> by using a `PutRecord` or `PutRecordBatch` API call. There are a number of ways of doing

Reviewer: No, a `kinesis.Stream` can be a source for a `DeliveryStream`, but they are not the same thing. One of the main differences between a Kinesis Stream and a Kinesis Firehose Delivery Stream is that Firehose provides all of these native integrations with other AWS products as the destinations of the Delivery Stream.

> by using a `PutRecord` or `PutRecordBatch` API call. There are a number of ways of doing

Reviewer 2: Oh I see. Putting records into either works the same, but the user can never themselves read from a Firehose stream, only from a regular Kinesis stream, is that the distinction?

> by using a `PutRecord` or `PutRecordBatch` API call. There are a number of ways of doing

Author: Added an intro paragraph on the distinction, hope its clear

so, such as:

- Kinesis Agent: a standalone Java application that monitors and delivers files while
  handling file rotation, checkpointing, and retries. See: [Writing to Kinesis Data Firehose Using Kinesis Agent](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/writing-with-agents.html)
  in the *Kinesis Data Firehose Developer Guide*.
- AWS SDK: a general purpose solution that allows you to deliver data to a delivery stream
  from anywhere using Java, .NET, Node.js, Python, or Ruby. See: [Writing to Kinesis Data Firehose Using the AWS SDK](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/writing-with-sdk.html)
  in the *Kinesis Data Firehose Developer Guide*.
- CloudWatch Logs: subscribe to a log group and receive filtered log events directly into

>   a delivery stream. See: [logs-destinations](../aws-logs-destinations).

Reviewer: Oh interesting, why is that?

Will update to absolute links.

>   a delivery stream. See: [logs-destinations](../aws-logs-destinations).

Author: Is the link further down okay to be relative?
> \[`IDeliveryStream`](../lib/delivery-stream.ts)

>   a delivery stream. See: [logs-destinations](../aws-logs-destinations).

Reviewer 2: The content will also be rendered here: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/latest/docs/aws-ec2-readme.html

And in that place that relative link is useless.

  ],
  copyOptions: 'json \'auto\'',
});
new DeliveryStream(this, 'Delivery Stream', {
  destination: redshiftDestination,
});
```

### 3rd Party

Third-party service providers such as Splunk, Datadog, Dynatrace, LogicMonitor, MongoDB,
New Relic, and Sumo Logic have integrated with AWS to allow users to configure their
service as a delivery stream destination out of the box.

These integrations have not been completed (see #1234), please use [custom HTTP endpoints](#custom-http-endpoint)
to integrate with 3rd party services.

### Custom HTTP Endpoint

A delivery stream can deliver data to any custom HTTP endpoint that conforms to the
[HTTP request/response schema]. Use the `HttpDestination` class to specify how Kinesis
Data Firehose can reach your custom endpoint and any configuration that may be required.

This integration has not been completed (see #1234).

[HTTP request/response schema]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/httpdeliveryrequestresponse.html

## Server-side Encryption

Enabling server-side encryption (SSE) requires Kinesis Data Firehose to encrypt all data
sent to delivery stream when it is stored at rest. This means that data is encrypted

> before being written to the storage layer and decrypted after it is received from the

Reviewer: This is referring to the data being encrypted within the Kinesis Firehose Delivery Streams service. The "storage layer" is abstracted away to the customer, and us. We could either clarify here, or maybe consider removing some of this explanation and linking to the kinesis docs earlier https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/encryption.html

not being delivered to your destination), or when the rate of incoming records exceeds the
limit of records per second (indicating data is flowing into your delivery stream faster
than it is configured to process).

CDK provides methods for accessing delivery stream metrics with default configuration,
such as `metricIncomingBytes`, and `metricIncomingRecords` (see [`IDeliveryStream`](../lib/delivery-stream.ts)
for a full list). CDK also provides a generic `metric` method that can be used to produce
metric configurations for any metric provided by Kinesis Data Firehose; the configurations
are pre-populated with the correct dimensions for the delivery stream.

```ts fixture=with-delivery-stream
// TODO: confirm this is a valid alarm
import * as cloudwatch from '@aws-cdk/aws-cloudwatch';
// Alarm that triggers when the per-second average of incoming bytes exceeds 90% of the current service limit
const incomingBytesPercentOfLimit = new cloudwatch.MathExpression({
  expression: 'incomingBytes / 300 / bytePerSecLimit',
  usingMetrics: {
    incomingBytes: deliveryStream.metricIncomingBytes({ statistic: cloudwatch.Statistic.SUM }),

>     bytePerSecLimit: deliveryStream.metric('BytesPerSecondLimit'),

Author: There are [lots](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/monitoring-with-cloudwatch-metrics.html#firehose-cloudwatch-metrics-best-practices). I wrote this section under the assumption that only canned metrics would be transformed into specific metric methods on the L2. Very happy to add more but not sure if necessary for the first implementation.

Current metrics: metricIncomingBytes, metricIncomingRecords, metricBackupToS3Bytes, metricBackupToS3DataFreshness, metricBackupToS3Records

>     bytePerSecLimit: deliveryStream.metric('BytesPerSecondLimit'),

Reviewer: I thinks we will defined metric functions for all metrics defined here: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/monitoring-with-cloudwatch-metrics.html 

Should they all be enumerated in the Readme?

>     bytePerSecLimit: deliveryStream.metric('BytesPerSecondLimit'),

Reviewer: The point of this example is to just show how to use the generic metric function.

>     bytePerSecLimit: deliveryStream.metric('BytesPerSecondLimit'),

Author: We link to the IDeliveryStream so I think it's fine to not enumerate all

>     bytePerSecLimit: deliveryStream.metric('BytesPerSecondLimit'),

Reviewer 2: > We link to the IDeliveryStream so I think it's fine to not enumerate all

When we are "crossing the chasm" we will be targeting users who will for the life of them refuse to read source code. So I'm not sure how valid this argument is 🙃

Hadoop-compatible Snappy, and ZIP, except for Redshift destinations, where Snappy
(regardless of Hadoop-compatibility) and ZIP are not supported. By default, data is
delivered to S3 without compression.

```ts fixture=with-bucket
// Compress data delivered to S3 using Snappy
const s3Destination = new destinations.S3({
  compression: Compression.SNAPPY,
  bucket: bucket,
});
new DeliveryStream(this, 'Delivery Stream', {
  destination: destination,
});
```

## Buffering

Incoming data is buffered before it is delivered to the specified destination. The
delivery stream will wait until the amount of incoming data has exceeded some threshold
(the "buffer size") or until the time since the last data delivery occurred exceeds some
threshold (the "buffer interval"), whichever happens first. You can configure these
thresholds based on the capabilities of the destination and your use-case. By default, the
buffer size is 3 MiB and the buffer interval is 1 minute.

```ts fixture=with-bucket
// Increase the buffer interval and size to 5 minutes and 3 MiB, respectively
import * as cdk from '@aws-cdk/core';

const s3Destination = new destinations.S3({

>   bufferingInterval: cdk.Duration.minutes(5),

Reviewer: The bufferingInterval and bufferSize are not supported for all destinations. It's supported for all destinations except Redshift and Splunk.

So we could make this a part of the deliverystream, but then would need to have a synth-time error for the destinations that don't support it. Or, it would silently do nothing for those destinations.

>   bufferingInterval: cdk.Duration.minutes(5),

Author: Redshift does in fact support buffering via the intermediate S3 bucket. As in, data is buffered by Firehose before being delivered to S3 and then is immediately COPY'd to the Redshift cluster

>   bufferingInterval: cdk.Duration.minutes(5),

Author: Since we will be supporting multiple destinations, this should not be moved to the delivery stream

which your backed-up data will placed within the bucket. By default, source data is not
backed up to S3.

```ts fixture=with-domain
import * as destinations from '@aws-cdk/aws-kinesisfirehose-destinations';
import * as s3 from '@aws-cdk/aws-s3';

// Enable backup of all source records (to an S3 bucket created by CDK)
const deliveryStream = new DeliveryStream(this, 'Delivery Stream Backup All', {
  destination: new destinations.Elasticsearch({
    domain: domain,
    indexName: 'myindex',
    backup: BackupMode.ALL,
  }),
});

// Enable backup of only the source records that failed to deliver (to an S3 bucket created by CDK)
const deliveryStream = new DeliveryStream(this, 'Delivery Stream Backup Failed', {
  destination: new destinations.Elasticsearch({
    domain: domain,
    indexName: 'myindex',
    backup: BackupMode.FAILED,
  }),
});

// Explicitly provide an S3 bucket to which all source records will be backed up
const backupBucket = new s3.Bucket(this, 'Bucket');
const deliveryStream = new DeliveryStream(this, 'Delivery Stream Backup All Explicit Bucket', {
  destination: new destinations.Elasticsearch({
    domain: domain,
    indexName: 'myindex',

>     backupBucket: backupBucket,

Reviewer: S3 backup is supported by all destinations right now. So we could move it up to the stream instead of the destination.

The Cloudformation API design has the S3 backup info as part of the destination, not part of the stream. But not sure, if that is a good reason to keep the S3 backup as part of the destination. 

We've also reached out to the Firehose team to try to find out if they will support multiple destinations in the future. But you are right, it is only one right now.

>     backupBucket: backupBucket,

Author: As you point out Rico, I think we made a lot of the decisions about where to place configuration based on the fact that the API seems to be leaning towards supporting multiple destinations. You'll have to let us know if that's unnecessary future-proofing or a smart design decision. Hopefully the service team can get back to us about their future directions

>     backupBucket: backupBucket,

Author: As above, we will be supporting multiple destinations

- `result` -- the status of the transformation of the record: "Ok" (success), "Dropped"
  (not processed intentionally), or "ProcessingFailed" (not processed due to an error).
- `data` -- the transformed data, Base64-encoded.

The data is buffered up to 1 minute and up to 3 MiB by default before being sent to the
function, but can be configured using `bufferInterval` and `bufferSize` in the processor
configuration (see: [Buffering](#buffering)). If the function invocation fails due to a
network timeout or because of hitting an invocation limit, the invocation is retried 3
times by default, but can be configured using `retries` in the processor configuration.

```ts fixture=with-bucket
// Provide a Lambda function that will transform records before delivery, with custom
// buffering and retry configuration
import * as cdk from '@aws-cdk/core';
import * as lambda from '@aws-cdk/aws-lambda';
const lambdaFunction = new lambda.Function(this, 'Processor', {
  runtime: lambda.Runtime.NODEJS_12_X,
  handler: 'index.handler',
  code: lambda.Code.fromAsset(path.join(__dirname, 'process-records')),
});
const s3Destination = new firehosedestinations.S3Destination({

>   processors: [{

Author: See the "alternative solution" section as well for another benefit of making this a class. I'm thinking this is a good idea

in the *Kinesis Data Firehose Developer Guide*.

### Specifying an IAM role

The DeliveryStream class automatically creates an IAM role with all the minimum necessary
permissions for Kinesis Data Firehose to access the resources referenced by your delivery
stream. For example: an Elasticsearch domain, a Redshift cluster, a backup or destination
S3 bucket, a Lambda data transformer, an AWS Glue table schema, etc. If you wish, you may
specify your own IAM role. It must have the correct permissions, or delivery stream
creation or data delivery may fail.

```ts
import * as iam from '@aws-cdk/aws-iam';
import * as s3 from '@aws-cdk/aws-iam';

const role = new iam.Role(stack, 'MyRole');
const bucket = new s3.bucket(stack, 'MyBucket');
bucket.grantWrite(role);
new DeliveryStream(stack, 'MyDeliveryStream', {
  destination: new destinations.S3({
    bucket: bucket,
  }),
  role: role,
});
```

See [Controlling Access](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/controlling-access.html)
in the *Kinesis Data Firehose Developer Guide*.

## Permission Grants

IAM roles, users or groups which need to be able to work with delivery streams should be
granted IAM permissions.

> Any object that implements the `IGrantable` interface (has an associated principal) can be

Reviewer: Yep, IDeliveryStream extends IGrantable in the Design section. 

Should we include an example of that in the Readme?

granted permissions to a delivery stream by calling:

> - `grantRead(principal)` - grants the principal read access to the control plane

Author: Probably `grantPutRecords` is the way to go

import * as iam from '@aws-cdk/aws-iam';
const lambdaRole = new iam.Role(this, 'Role', {
  assumedBy: new iam.ServicePrincipal('lambda.amazonaws.com'),
}

// Give the role permissions to write data to the delivery stream
deliveryStream.grantWriteData(lambdaRole);
```

The following write permissions are provided to a service principal by the `grantWriteData()` method:

- `firehose:PutRecord`
- `firehose:PutRecordBatch`

### Custom Permissions

You can add any set of permissions to a delivery stream by calling the `grant()` method.

```ts fixture=with-delivery-stream
import * as iam from '@aws-cdk/aws-iam';
const user = new iam.User(this, 'User');

// give user permissions to update destination
deliveryStream.grant(user, 'firehose:UpdateDestination');
```

---

# Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose Destinations Library

This library provides constructs for adding destinations to a Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose
delivery stream.  Destinations can be added by specifying the `destination` prop when
creating a delivery stream.

See Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose module README for usage examples.

If further customization is required, use `HttpDestination` from this package or implement

> `firehose.IDestination`.

Reviewer 2: If you really mean this, be prepared to put `@subclassable` on `IDestination`, which means you never get to change the interface ever again :).

Reviewer: Could we still change the interface while the module is experimental? And is it uncommon for customers to create their own implementations of CDK interfaces?

Author: I think this sentence was a bit of a hedge – if `HttpDestination` is built correctly, then it should support *any* custom HTTP endpoint and any further customization/defaulting by customers should subclass `HttpDestination`
